= Installation Guide =

== Requirements ==

  * T-PoT is a plug-in for Total Commander, which only runs on *Windows*. It has been tested with Windows XP Home SP2 and Windows XP Professional SP2, but there is no reason it shouldn't work with Vista, the only issue probably being the next requirement.

  * *Total Commander*. It was mainly tested with version 7.02a, but it should be back-compatible with version 6. You can download it from [http://www.ghisler.com/ Total Commander home page], it's a 30-day trial but really worth the buy - even without the T-PoT plug-in ;)

  * *iTunes* 7.4 or later.

== Adding the Plug-in to Total Commander ==

*1. Download the latest version of the T-PoT plug-in*

You can get it from [http://code.google.com/p/t-pot/downloads/list this page]. There are always two versions:
  * one compiled with Visual Studio 2005 and which requires Microsoft .NET Framework Version 2.0.
  * one compiled with Visual Studio 2003 that only requires msvcp71.dll and msvcr71.dll (which I put on the download page as [http://t-pot.googlecode.com/files/Libs2003.zip Libs2003.zip].

*2. Save the zip file in a temporary directory and open it with Total Commander.*

*3. Total Commander will recognize a self-installable plug-in and ask whether you want to install it or not.*

Simply click Yes.

If you miss some of the libraries mentioned earlier, you will get an error message. Otherwise you can proceed with the installation:

  * If this is the first time you install the plug-in, Total Commander will ask you where to store the files. You can safely use the default path.

_Note_: in some versions of Total Commander, the default path is <TC>\plugins\wfx\T-PoT, in other versions like 7.02a it is <TC>\plugins\T-Pot. This issue doesn't really matter.

  * If there was another version already installed, Total Commander will aks whether you want to overwrite it, or install the plug-in elsewhere. Normally, you should overwrite the previous version.

*4. Once the plug-in is installed, you can rename it.*

It is not necessary. The File system plugins window also allows you to uninstall the plug-in later, or rename it.

*5. Check if the plug-in is visible.*

Open the Network Neighborhood in Total Commander:
  * open the left or right drive letter drop-down (alternatively, press Alt-F1 or Alt-F2)
  * select "[\-] Network Neighborhood" at the bottom of the list

You should see a [T-PoT] entry, or the name you renamed the plug-in to, next to an iPod icon.

*6. Browse the iPod directories.*

First, make sure the iPod is connected to the USB port of your computer and that it is recognized by iTunes.

Enter the [T-PoT] directory by moving to it with the arrow keys and pressing enter, or by double-clicking it with the mouse left button.